Andre Carpathy, I mean, one of the
godfathers of AI, has just launched
something called auto research. And auto
research is a huge deal, and it's going
viral on Twitter. And I just wanted to
do an episode where I can explain to you
in the clearest way possible what it is,
what are the use cases, how to make
money from it, how to be more productive
with it, how to create impact with it.
And by the end of this episode, I'm
going to give you a bunch of different
ideas, use cases for how to use auto
research. I'm going to explain it to you
in the most clear way possible and at
the end I'm going to tell you how you
can actually get started with it. Um, so
let's go right into it.
>> So what is auto research? Well, it's
like having a super nerd robot intern
that runs science experiments on a AI
models for you all night without you
doing the boring stuff. I mean, sounds
intriguing, right? So how do you
actually you know program it or get
started with it? Well, the first thing
is you got to give it a goal. So you can
say something like make this small AI
model smarter. That's the goal. And then
an AI agent will actually plan what to
do like different settings, code
changes, edits the Python code for you,
runs a short training experiment on a
GPU
um for about 5 minutes. it reads the
results it and then it decides what to
change next and to repeats the loop. So,
in some ways, you know, if you've seen
my video on the Ralph loop, where it
basically would do engineering 24/7 and
you'd wake up to new stuff happening, in
simplest terms, that's what auto
research is helping you. You know, it
do. You give it a goal, the AI agent
does a thing. You know, you tell the AI
what better means. uh cheaper leads,
more clicks, higher sales, better model
school, and then the AI keeps changing
things, testing them, and it only saves
the changes that improve. So, what's
really cool about it is you wake up, you
grab the best version, and then
hopefully you turn it into something you
charge for or, you know, you give it
away. I saw this tweet by Toby, who's
the uh CEO and co-founder of Shopify.
Auto research works even better for
optimizing any piece of software. make
an auto folder. Add a program MD that's
just a markdown file which is really the
foundation of what you know how you're
going to be using auto research and a
bench script make a branch and let it
rip. So that's why I started paying
attention to auto research right when
Andre Carpathy Legend and Toby and and
and more people you know started playing
with it I'm like okay I got to pay
attention. So I created this little
visual for for how to think about what
auto research is. So you set the goal.
Uh the the AI plans an experiment. It
edits and trains the code and settings.
It runs a short training on a GPU. By
the way, this is an important I should I
should mention that you need a uh
a Nvidia chip to actually run auto
research or you can do it in the cloud.
I'll talk about this at the end of the
episode, but you you know you do need
that. You can't just run it on, let's
say you have a MacBook M1 or something
like that. It reads metrics. It says, is
it a better result? If it's if it's not,
it's going to log the attempt and it's
going to discard the config. If it's
yes, it saves it to the config. Um, and
then just plans a different experiment
and it just, you know, hopefully gets
better on your goal, whatever it is. So,
um let's uh let's get into
um we're going to get into some of the
ideas, business ideas around it. But
right before that, I just want to say
here's a simple mental model for how I'm
thinking about uh auto uh auto research.
So, imagine you have a research boss you
can boss around. Number one, you write,
you know, a clear task. So, for code
experiments, maybe it's improve this
model test score. for business. Figure
out the top five competitors for product
XYZ and make a short report. Step two is
you give the uh you give the bot um you
know access to the code, a GPU for ML
experiments. You obviously need to give
it access to the internet and documents.
If you're doing reading task, the bot
then runs a loop. So it it plans, it
acts meaning it might run code or
search, it reads results, it updates the
plan and then you just come back later
you know uh it could be 12 hours, 20
hours, 6 hours and you see if it's
logged everything charts and metrics and
then it gives you a written sum summary
in normal language. So you know think of
auto research as a research bot that
runs experiments for you while you sleep
tries lots of ideas fast and keeps the
winners. Quick break to invite you to
something. Now this isn't an ad. I just
want to invite you to a free event
because I think that you're going to get
a lot out of it. I wanted to take 1 hour
of time where we just talk about
building businesses in the age of AI.
People say SAS is dying. I actually
believe the quite opposite. I think that
SAS is just evolving. I think right now
is an incredible time to be building
software startups that help you craft
your dream life. And for all those
reasons, I'm said I said, let's just
book 1 hour of time. It's going to be 11
a.m. March 12th. That's a Thursday,
where we can go and lock in and just
talk about building businesses in the
Ajai. I'll include a link in the
description in the show notes to join
and I can't wait to see you there. Okay,
how do we use it? Here are some ideas
for you. So, the first idea for you I
have is a niche agent in a box. You
know, products. This can be multiple
products. And by the way, I put out
these ideas. I want you to do these
ideas. I think that you know even if
they don't turn into businesses you will
learn about these tools and that is
going to help you outperform 99.9% of
people on this planet. So uh you package
tiny auto research loops tuned for one
painful niche. So the example I think of
is an Amazon listing experimentter an
email sequence tuner for real re realtor
uh a pricing optimizer for SAS. Those
are, you know, auto research loops and
an and ideally in a na a niche that you
understand well and then you charge a
monthly fee. So the value prop is this
thing runs experiments for you 24/7 and
just show shows you the winner to click
accept. How valuable is that? And how
many different niches are there that you
know this plays into? The hard part is
figuring out what the what what's the
pain points and then and then obviously
you know you want to be quick quick to
market, right? So, here's a visual of
it. Pick the painful niche. Design the
tiny auto research loop. Run experiments
automatically. See which setup works
best. Turn best setup to a simple agent
product. And then you charge that
monthly subscription. Number two, you're
going to want to, you know, here's an
idea. Print money using an AB testing
for marketing. So this is it's it's very
similar um but instead of you know uh
instead of uh you know doing it for
realtors or whatever you're doing it for
ads and landing page experiments. So
landing pages so the agent writes
varants of headlines layouts and offers
pushing them to traffic measures which
one converts better and keeps iterating.
So this is like conversion rate
optimization around landing pages. you
know the old think of you know tools
like optimizely that's a SAS tool that
you know when I first moved to San
Francisco I remember how big they were
and everyone was talking about
optimizely and AB testing and it's like
well this is the future of that uh auto
research for different landing pages you
can also do use auto research for
something like ads which auto test
creatives it auto tests angles and
audiences and then it keeps the combo uh
combos that lower CAC or raise rowaz so
you know you profit by running this for
your own pro products like if you if you
want to build your own products and just
use this internally that works or you
know offering an always on experiment
engine to clients as a retainer service
for 5k a month I'm going to you know
give you the best landing pages every
single month and it's just going to come
to your inbox that sort of thing
visual of it business goals uh you know
the goal that you're giving the auto
research is more sales it's generating
things like pages and ad versions
sending traffic to the versions,
measuring conversion and revenue. Um,
does any version beat the current best?
Um, you know, if it doesn't, then you're
going to keep the current control, but
if it does, you know, you're promoting
the winner to a new control, and it
you're asking for the AI for new ideas.
All right. Hope hope your creative
juices are are starting to get flowing.
You're starting to understand a little
bit more about how how it's working, how
you think about goals, how you can think
about agents, and how you can set up
these loops. Number three, research as a
service. So auto research's recipe is
basically a loop for doing research,
right? Cuz you're searching, reading,
summarizing, and you're comparing, and
then you're repeating. So how do you
point that at money problems like market
and competitor research for startups? So
constantly updated reports on who's
doing what? Pricing, features, and gaps,
super valuable. investor and M&A decks,
fast technical and market due diligence
summaries, super valuable compli um
compliance and regulation tracking for
niches, I don't know, crypto,
healthcare, finance, super valuable. So,
you can charge per report like a one-off
or you can set up like a monthly
subscription for always fresh
dashboards. So visual uh define client
research question, auto research
searches and reads, um summarize and
compare findings, creates reports and
dashboards, deliver insight to client
and the client pays per report or
monthly, whatever you decide. Number
four, uh power tool inside your own
product. So if you already have built a
SAS or workflow, embed an auto research
style agent so your users can press
optimize just like a big I envision like
a big button that just says optimize and
the system runs a mini research loop for
them. So for example, tune prompts, pick
best pricing, rank suppliers, then you
can charge higher tiers for this feature
or you can use it as a wedge to upsell
pro and enterprise brands. So maybe you
uh maybe that's a part of proin
enterprise. Maybe it's something that
you just send an email to, you know,
your entire list and you're like, "Hey,
you know, we have this really powerful
tool. Imagine you press this button.
It's like it's like bending spoons,
right? It's like bending spoons. Like
how is this um bending spoons, not the
private equity group I'm talking about.
I'm like the idea of you can bend a
spoon, right? It's incredible that you'd
be able to optimize, press a button, and
this would happen." So visual over here
have an existing SAS. Add an optimize
button. Users run many research loops.
Tools suggest better settings or prices.
Users see better results. Offer higher
price proprans and enterprise plans.
Number five. This is a saucy episode by
the way. This is saucy. All right.
Agency that sells. We run more tests
than anyone else. Because Auto Research
lets you run hundreds of experiments
instead of a few. You have a simple
pitch. We do a 100 times more testing
than other shops for the same or lower
fee. A niche example, a Shopify store
conversion lab, B2B SAS pricing
experiment service, email subject line
and sequence optimizer. You charge per
month and a bonus if you hit specific
KPI lifts, revshare performance fee.
People love that. You know, of course,
they're going to be, you know,
interested in Yeah. If you can do if you
can lift this KPI, we'll give you some
bonus. So, here's the uh the visual.
Start an optimization agency. Use auto
research to run many tests. Improve
stores pricing, emails, and funnels.
Show clients more experiments and wins.
Charge monthly retainer and performance
fee.
Number six, and we've got about uh 10.
Yeah. So, we're almost almost done. And
then after we're going to talk about um
just some cool interesting, you know,
stories around auto research. And then
I'll end with uh you know how you can
set this up you know very briefly. So
autoquant for trading ideas. So you can
use auto research to run small fast uh
back tests of many simple trading rules.
So LLM base factor screens sentiment
filters on one GPU overnight. So you can
keep the few strategies that look
promising then either trade on your own
account or sell signals and strategy
reports. So depends if you're a trader,
maybe you're doing yourself. Um or yeah,
you can just, you know, sell this as a
digital product or Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
basically a digital product. So you
define the simple trading rules, you run
many back tests overnight, you review
the strategy performance, you keep only
promising strategies, trade your own
capital, or you can sell the signals. I
think finance is changing a lot. Um, and
I think with things like auto research,
uh, you know, it just
it's it's going to be an unfair
advantage for a lot of people. Um,
so I think you're going to see a lot
more digital products uh that people
sell and also, you know, just using
their own money, trading themselves
instead of giving uh 1% or whatever to a
financial adviser.
Um, I'm sure also, by the way, pe a lot
of people are going to get burned by
this, too. Like, they're not they're
just going to blindly just trust an auto
research. You need to have a human in in
the loop and you need to manage that
obviously accordingly. But, yeah, you
can just see. Yeah, there's definitely
going to be some people are going to get
burnt. You just give the entire um
they're just like give a bank account
and just let auto research just trade
for it. I mean, would be interesting. It
would be an interesting test, that's for
sure. Number seven, always on lead
qualification and follow-up. Point an
auto research style agent at your CRM,
so like a Salesforce or something like
that, and inbound leads. Let it test
rules and messages to see which leads
are most likely to buy, right? It
autogrades the leads, suggests next
actions, and drafts follow-up. So sales
people only focus on high value deals.
So it's more revenue per hour spent.
Visual over here for you. Connect to
CRM, you know, auto research, test the
leads, rank leads by likelihood to buy,
draft follow-up messages, sales focus on
best leads, revenue per sale increases.
Eight, finance ops, autopilot for
businesses. Use the loop to grind
through invoice matching, expense report
generation, and exception detection with
continuous small improvements to rule
and prompts. You can sell this as we cut
your AP expense time in half either as
software or as an op service with a
small team and agent. By the way, I can
totally see someone like someone
starting this and this gets acquired by
one of the large fintech companies or
one of the large banks. Uh so visual uh
here ingest invoices and expenses. The
auto research improves rules and
prompts, matches invoice and detects
exceptions. It generates clean expense
reports. reduces manual finance work and
then you can sell it as a software or op
service or you start maybe you start as
ops service and then uh you kind of
evolve into the software. Two more for
you. Number nine, an internal
productivity lab for your own org. I
thought this was interesting. So treat
your company like Carpathy's GPU lab.
Define KPIs. So like response time,
close rate, ticket resolution, and let
agents iterate on workflows and
templates and routing rules. So you just
get fewer meetings, less manual grunt
work, and then you personally touch only
the high impact decisions when everyone
else rides the improved process. So the
goal here is defining the key metrics.
Auto research is testing the new
workflows. It's improving templates and
writing rules. You're cutting meetings
and manual tasks. That's good. Team
focuses on high impact work. And then
higher productivity and ideally higher
profit. Last idea for you, done for you
research or due diligence shop. So you
use the research loop to chew through
docs, filings, product pages, and
reviews and keep an evolving living memo
for clients like investors, acquirers,
execs. You make money by selling fast,
well ststructured briefs, and a monthly
uh update packs instead of one-off
manual research logs. Um so uh you know
the the goal get investor or acquire
question. This happens all the time.
Auto research reads through docs and
filings. It summarizes that product
markets and risks. It maintains a living
memo for the client. It delivers the
brief and updates packs and the client
pays for reports and ongoing access. Um,
I would pay for something like this. Um,
so hopefully someone builds it. All
right, so those are a bunch of ideas for
you. I also saw a couple interesting
things this morning. uh my good friend
Morgan Linton uh who's you know been on
the pod before he says I woke up this
morning and all I can think about is
auto research so many idea ideas ideas
ideas ideas ideas ideas ideas ideas
ideas swirling around in my head not
sure 99% of the world realized the
incredible breakthroughs carpathy is
making and just sharing casually on X
right now where my mind is going is
medicine it feels like in many ways
clinical trial design is itself kind of
like a hyperparameter search I know
right Now trials cost tens of millions
of dollars minimum. It feels like an
agent swarm could optimize treatment
protocols on small proxy experiments,
promote the most promising candidates
and then move to humans to review. So
humans still very much in the loop but
later on and experimentation going much
deeper happening faster and for far less
money. I think for me while I'm not a
doctor, he's an engineer. What I'm the
most excited about when it comes to AI
is the impact it will have on human
health and critical areas like disease
treatment. Might be a crazy idea so a
real doctor can jump in the comments and
slap me on the wrist here. I looked at
the replies. I didn't see uh you know
any any doctors come in, but I don't
know. I just can't stop thinking about
how what Carpathy has discovered here
could have some pretty profound
implications. So, only halfway through
my coffee though, but woke up this
morning and this is what I'm thinking
about. So, a thought I'd share. I agree.
I think there's a lot of really
interesting not just like business
profit ideas, but also just like
medicine, science, uh research. So, I'm
excited for people to to take this and
and to continue with it. Um, I also saw
this tweet here. Uh, what's after auto
research? It's Carpathy's new
open-source project, AgentHub. So,
Carpathy also launched AgentHub. What is
AgentHub? It's GitHub for humans. Uh,
sorry, GitHub is for humans. AgentHub is
for agents. So, it's basically a GitHub
for for agents. An agent swarm
collaboration platform. A very promising
direction. I'm watching him speedrun a
$1 billion
uh company. If you look at the GitHub
for AgentHub, it says first use case is
for auto research, but it's a lot more
general than that. Exploratory project.
He says, "Agent first collaboration
platform, a bare git repo, a message
board designed for a swarm of agents
working on the same codebase.
Think of it like a stripped down GitHub
where there's no main branches, no main
branch, no PRs, no merges, a sprawling
dag of commits in every direction with a
message board for agents coordinate uh
coordinate coordinate. I think this is
really interesting and just like
whenever Car Path is up to something,
I'm always paying attention, so I had to
put that one in there as well. So, um,
you know, maybe you've gotten to the end
of, uh, this episode and you're kind of
like, okay, I kind of I think I
understand what auto research is. I
think I know what, you know, Carpathy's
a G. Um, Toby's a G. Like, all these
smart people are are are playing with
it. Um, how do I get started? Well, to
get started, I'd recommend um
just tell Claude code to get you
started. So, you know, I went ahead and
I basically was like uh I I gave um
Cloud Code the list this um this GitHub
repo, the GitHub, the auto research
GitHub repo, and wow, 25,000 stars
already. So, this is crazy. Um, it's
really growing growing quick.
Um, so I just gave it I gave uh gave it
the link and I was just like I need help
installing auto research by Carpathy.
Um, and it says here's how to install it
and set up auto research by Cararpathy.
You need an Nvidia GPU. So I talked I
talked about that in the beginning. It
was tested on a H100 but other Nvidia
GPUs should work. And you need a UV
package manager. So you have to install
UV. You clone the repo, you install the
dependencies,
um, you prepare the data and run a
training experiment. In my case, I don't
have an Nvidia GPU. I'm actually using a
MacBook and an M1 Pro. I know I'm I need
a I need a upgrade um to a new Mac. So,
I was like, "So, wait, I need an Nvidia
GPU to do this." Um, but there's a few
options. cloud GPU. Um,
you know, you can, so you can rent an
Nvidia GPU from a service like Lambda
Labs, Vast AI, RunPod, or Google Collab.
Some offer free tier GPUs. This is the
most straightforward forward path. So,
that's that's the answer to people who
don't have an Nvidia chip. Just rent it
on one of these services. I personally
use Google Collab. Why? Um, I just know
Google the best and trust Google the
best. Um,
you know, it also says you can try it,
you know, via Apple Silicon via an MPS
backend. I'm like, no, I'm not going to
do that. Um, so with that, that's what
route I did. I went on Google Collab.
The easiest way to get started, you go
to collab.google.com. You create a new
notebook. You change the runtime to
change runtime T4 GPU. And you run a
bunch of commands. That might be like
complicated, sound complicated. You,
this is what Collab looks like. you
literally just tell you know you you
listen to what um cloud code tells you
to do and you just paste it in and you
can get started. So um you know if if
people are interested I can spend you
know more time with this with auto
research as I'm learning sharing more
about it but I just wanted to do give
you a quick primer on what it is why
it's important what are some ideas on
how you can actually use this thing um
and then how are people installing it
they're just you know you can use cloud
code as your helper to get it instal
installed and you're going to want to
rent uh a a GPU in the cloud, at least
to start. So, hope this has been
helpful. Um, this is another solo
podcast that I'm doing on the Startup
Ideas podcast. The last time I did this
last week, I had a lot of comments that
said, "Yeah, Greg, I actually really
like when you just come in solo and just
start like telling us what's on your
mind and stuff like that in real time."
So, I'm here. I read every single
comment. So, you know, keep commenting,
keep liking, keep subscribing, and I'll
keep, you know, putting this out there
for you for free. Yeah, I'm excited to
see what you end up using this for. Um,
of course, it's early, right? Like, this
is this is brand new. Um, people are
still trying to figure out what are the
use cases, but I always find that, you
know, in the in the fog in the fog,
people don't really understand where the
opportunity is is when there's sometimes
an opportunity. So, um, one thing I've
just learned in my career is just like
when I see people like Carpathy doing
things like this, you want to pay
attention. You want to tinker with it.
You want have some fun with it, and you
want to see what it's all about. So,
thanks again for, you know, giving me
your time. Um, hope this has been clear.
Share this with a friend, uh, who you
think would see it valuable. Um, and if
you need if you need any ideas, more
ideas on startups to build, u you know,
with AI, ideabrowser.com definitely your
place to go. And I'll see you in the
comment section. And, uh, I'll see you
next time. You know, have a creative